Good afternoon. Today we have as a guest Yuriy
Mikhalchyshyn, a nationalist expert on
Russophobia. Good afternoon, Mr. Yuriy. I congratulate
you. Glory to Ukraine. Glory to the heroes. I would like to
talk about such a topic as the war between
Ukraine and Russia. Many people
say that the war there began in February
2022.  the war has been going on since 2014,
but in fact, this war has lasted quite a
long time, from your expert
opinion. When did the war
between the Russian people and the Ukrainians begin, we
can certainly record the first such war
in the period of the struggle for the inheritance of
Kyivan Rus, and we will be talking about the
year 1169.  the struggle of Kyiv against the creation of this is
the prototype of today's Muscovy, but
since at that time the processes of ethnogenesis on
our territory had just begun in earnest
and the
characteristically Ukrainian nation would continue
to form over the next 500
years, for me personally it is a
defining fact of Russia's war with
Ukraine in the new era, without which Russia
never became an empire  we are talking about the
Ruina period, which is relatively little
studied on a mass level in our country, except for, say,
Kulish's novel Black Council, and I will not mention
here any such significant phenomena of our
literature, but the period after the death of
Bohdan Khmelnytskyi until the hetmanship of
Ivan Mazepa is essentially a period of
continuous
Russian-Ukrainian war  and
moreover, its fronts ran partially also
in these regions, where the
Russian invasion was stopped in the spring of 2022, we are
talking about our classic Cossack
lands.  it is
about the
1650-60s, unfortunately, then the
Hetmanship gradually gave way,
lost by armed means, and with the help of
hybrid methods, such as the
formation of a fifth column here among the
Cossack elders, the use of an
ethno-religious factor in the form of the
Orthodox Church of Muscovy, then it
was possible to take control  the Ukrainian
left bank without the left bank, Muscovy
would never have become Russia, would never have become an
empire, and the language is clearly not about
its formal status in 1721, it is
about the fact that the actual control over the
hetmanship over its economic and
human potential is precisely the same as the possible
transformation of Russia into an empire  a
step for her was the conquest of Siberia,
control of the Urals, and without all this, the
imperial form of government never took place there.
By the way, you very well
mentioned the human potential.
everywhere, the
Ukrainian factor was one of the
military, for example, the same Cossacks, the
same World War II, is there any
war in your memory that Muscovy
then
won without Ukrainians in its composition,
of course we will not find any such
war except  that one of the branches of
the Northern when Russia annexed
Finland in Sweden But I can
say with certainty that no
Russo-Turkish war would have been fought without
goat regiments and without the armed
formations of the Russian Empire,
which were still based on the ancient Cossack regiments of
the Hetmanship and the Left Bank  By the way, and
later on the right bank, the whole 19th
century is the century of relentless
Russian expansion, when it became, according to the
apt expression of the classics of Marxism, the
gendarme of Europe, then these vectors are well
known: the Balkans, the Caucasus, and Central
Asia, so Russia would not have won any war there
without Ukrainian resources in  first of all, the
human command, of course,
without our military tradition, even
attempts to export Russian measures to Europe, we
will remember the suppression of the Spring of Nations, the
defeat of the first and
second Warsaw Uprising, all this would not have happened
without the factor of Ukrainians integrated into the
Russian imperial machine, so I
will repeat that without us  they would never have
happened, and this is the main, if
dialectical, reason for our ongoing
confrontation, and it has a character that is
more and more principled.  of the
imperial yoke.
And this is a struggle on equal footing, that is, a struggle
for who will form a great
state in the space of Central
Eastern Europe, so what is the question?
that
no one has a question about the
subjectivity of Ukraine anymore, we have become from some kind of
secondary, you know, a rough
man in the yard somewhere, so we have become one of the
main players, and this is visible in
relation to our political elite in the
West, yes, but it is also so interesting
We mentioned the Empire, and I
noticed that we have Russia, when
Muscovy conquered Ukraine, it was Ukrainian lands. It
threw our people to conquer
new territories, the same Caucasus, as
if in Asia, the same Shevchenko. Where did he
serve in Orenburg? And now it turns out that we
we broke out from under this yoke, we
realize ourselves as an independent nation, but the
others were forced to give birth to the same Buryats there, because the
Tatars of the Caucasus are short-haired, they throw them for
conquest, that is, the Empire fights with foreign
peoples, so it turns out that way and very
organically. But there is one difference,
the Ukrainians were already integrated at that time
when they had their own great
state culture, Kievan Rus, the Grand
Duchy of Lithuania and the Russian
Hetmanship, the Cossack Republic of
Zaporizhzhya Sich, these are serious forms of
political military organization, and those
born by Russia were colonized at
much earlier stages of their development,
at that time they were clearly not at the stage of
nation-building or at  at the stage of already existing
national states, that is why, unfortunately, they
became the building material for the empire.
Fortune, but these same peoples were in
the orbit of foreign subjectivity, from where
Russia simply snatched them out and used them as
building materials, as bricks for
the construction of the Great Russian Wall of the
Empire on the Eurasian landmass, let's
immediately move on to such a question, that
war and the phase of the war, I will not say that it is
a war because  what I consider it is that it
stretches for centuries, so because this is
a confrontation and it raises the same
meanings that were there several centuries ago,
but this is the phase that is now in your
opinion, what marker would be the victory of
Ukraine, this is the way out  the borders of
1991. Yes, it is the collapse of Russia, yes, that is, and
this is the factor, we can say that yes, yes.
At this stage, Ukraine won
first of all, the marker is traditionally a battle.
claws and a
large number of prisoners, a sort of
Russian Stalingrad in Ukraine. That is, this
is an event on the scale of the Battle of Konotop, which was
won by Vyhovsky in 1659. This is Revenge
for the tragic defeat of the substation of the
young Ukrainian People's Republic.
This will become a marker after which we can
talk about the victorious
nature of the progress of events  there is no way to
change it, and we are talking about Actually, not
so much about geography or not so much about
politics, legal borders, the module and those
about the destruction of the offensive potential of
Russia, without which it ceases to be a
threat to the world, that is, its geography is a
strength only because all this resource
works  on the military machine, the defeat of the military
machine, its paralysis and dismantling. This is the
beginning of the end of the Russian Empire, and this
end can also come in the Voronezh region.
And it can also happen in the Ural Mountains region,
there is no need for international illusions. The main thing is to
achieve the instrumental goal of
crushing the Russian military machine and
not to give  to use the mobilization
potential of the enslaved peoples, that is, we
will immediately move on to you personally, how do you
see it? I, for example, do not see it, that is,
if Russia remains within the
borders of which it is, sooner or later
it will again begin to drain
minerals and human resources, so on the
restoration of this military
historical mouse, our predecessors did not
take it into account 100 years ago, the war is also very
similar to the current one, this is the war of
1917-1921. Russia was weakened by the First
World War and the military coup of
the Bolsheviks, signed the Brest-Lithuania
peace, recognized the Ukrainian People's
Republic. As we know, Russia retreated,
so the Ukrainian garrisons stood in  in
Belgorod, the Ukrainian flag of the majors stood on the kurshchyna
above the mozer and above the
northern historical massif above our
Berestechka region, which happened in the summer of 1918
during the period when the so-called
neutral zone existed, even the buffer
territory was formally demilitarized between the
Ukrainian State, which at that time
was already under the control of the
Skoropadsky Hetmanate and  in the Russian Soviet
Socialist
Federal Republic, what happened
there was the formation of a
hybrid army of invasion. That is, it is the
so-called Red Cossacks, it is the
Ukrainian insurgent divisions of Shchors
Bozhenko and Parkhomenko. And as soon as the
external support of Ukraine in the
form of German and Austro-Hungarian
allied troops weakened, as soon as  the revolutions broke out
in November 1918, the
Bolsheviks immediately, without any incidents, without
any provocations or pretexts, simply
began to cut our border outposts
in Belgorod in the Moser and
began to form
offensive groups along the entire perimeter of the border, again marched on
Kharkiv, Poltava and Kyiv from the north,
that is, at that moment  of any operational
pause, the Russians use
regulatory exclusivity, which means that a
powerful geographical barrier must be used against them.
Unfortunately, the geography is
such that there is not and cannot be a Himalayan mountain range between us and them, and there
cannot be an Atlantic Ocean.
Therefore, it is necessary to  the
totally demilitarized territory has become such a
barrier, and we are talking about
hundreds of kilometers here, I am not even sure
that a 100-kilometer buffer zone is a
sufficient guarantee of security as long as
Russia remains in one form or another, or
as the current Federation or as a
collection of some other
successor entities, we are talking about  500-600 km
buffer security zone between us and them
should be like this, let's say it's
not that the wall but the territory is devoid of the
military presence of our enemy,
but for example.
the acquisition of
their national states by those ordered by the peoples
because the buffer zone of the
buffer zone Yes, but the
situation, let's say geopolitical, sooner or
later may also change Yes, Russia
can again use what it is to come
500 km there, conditionally er, demilitarized by some roads,
these 500 km must be
transformed  into a territory unsuitable for the
deployment of offensive bridgeheads there.
And this is entirely within the capabilities of the
level of equipment that the Ukrainian army will have before
that, but you are right about the
task of what is
called in the Nation Building theory, the
formation of some new
national state entities there, this is not
our mission, we do not  in this context,
we are the builders of the new empire, we are a people, a
nation that has found its subjectivity,
that
defends and protects it, and our
great power is definitely not a tracing
paper or a stimulator of the Russian one, so it is not at all
about the fact that the Ukrainians
should replace the Russians with them as an
imperial factor in  the question is whether
we should help the Tatars there with the Kazan
Bashkortostan, what is there to
get their national state, this is
purely for tactical reasons, since
it destabilizes Moscow, St. Petersburg,
or what kind of state center they will have there,
this is only beneficial to us and needs
our attention and deserves our  resource
more This absolutely does not fit into
our national interests, as far as I'm concerned, our
future does not reach there.
let's not.
I just always think to myself,
for example, Europe and the Soviet Union, if
now Kazakhstan, the same as Tajikistan,
Uzbekistan were part of the
current Soviet Union, yes. So, Russia
threw the same Tajiks, Uzbeks,
Kazakhs into the war in a conditional Poland, yes, due to the fact
that we disintegrated into  to the independent
Republic, yes, the Kazakhs who are in
Orenburg, yes, who are now on the territory of
Russia, they are sent to fight in Ukraine, the
Kazakhs, who are 100 km away, are
conditionally in this in Pavludar, yes, they
do not send them, yes, that is, there is already a huge
resource of mobilization Russia,
therefore, in principle, I believe  that we are
interested in not just
leaving Russia there without teeth, but
leaving it without these territories and
colonized peoples, as you can see, but
now
other states are projecting their power and influence into this space more strongly, it is
China and it is Turkey, it does not have
the potential to compete with them to break
their influence in Central Asia, for example, to
break the influence of the idea of a belt of Turkic
states or to break the Chinese main
factor of promoting influence - these are
economic investments that buy
political influence, our key influence
today is the projection of armed force that
destroys Russian offensive potential
This  is our main trump card, but to engage in
some expensive projects, we
don't have any
strength, we have nothing. Sorry, if you look
at the harsh reality of last year's 30%
drop in GDP. Well, here we are talking about the fact that the
reconstruction of the economy will be our
priority after  the successful achievement of
military goals and God grant that it will be a
measurable e-e closeness, the question here is not
to compete for geopolitical
influence on those you will have to, you understand,
Andriy will have to, its the world of services
global post bipolar where there will be no
peace, lets say some level of competition
there economy  Are there any
competitive projects? No, after all, it will be a world
destabilized by Russia for a long time, and the world
will be in conflict. Therefore, for a while, I think we will have to focus on
reconstruction. Well, excuse me. We have a colossal
demographic problem. We absolutely do not
need hired workers to come to the Ukrainian black lands
of the
national football teams from Russia that you mentioned, we will have to
raise the birth rate from
within ourselves, and well, this is to direct the
main resource and state
potential and organizational management
influence, therefore, I would think of the process you created
exclusively in the category of a subversive
activist empire, no more, that is,
we have no resources. It is clear  What is the
same Bezkordistan there, if they are Turks,
that is, they are integrating into Russia into some kind
of Turkic world there, Turan, they have
projects, yes, Chortkivski o That is, the
most important thing for us is what we will say, I know. There
are some initiatives in Ukraine, they are a
platform for  of these
representatives of national movements from Russia
who are forced Yes, just like from the
Soviet Union, our Dissidents
were there in Europe because of
persecution and did publishing
activities there and so on, so Ukraine is
now becoming one of such platforms yes
interesting But the question touched on  you too,
Bilhorod yes. If we take the
Ukrainian ethnic territories there at the
beginning of the 20th century and impose them on the
current geographical borders, yes,
we often have someone joke that Bilhorod is
Ukraine, we should take it away.
now here is
the population that lives in Belgorod in the Kuban, are
they Ukrainians in general or are
they already more convenient and not such scoops, and we
will have more trouble if somewhere
could integrate into their society,
the question so far has a theoretical level of
formulation, but
unfortunately we have to  to admit that the last 100
years have not benefited the national
identity and self-determination of the inhabitants of
this region as Ukrainians, the
assimilation policy is taking its toll, and if we
take into account that 3-4 generations lived there under the
intensified Russian assimilation
influence, then we will certainly not
automatically return to the situation of 1918 and it
will not be enough  simply raise the
Ukrainian blue-yellow flag over
Belgorod so that it is the reintegration of
our ethnic territories and it can be the
expulsion of Russian troops from there, it
can be the creation of Ukrainian
bridgeheads there, but can we talk about the fact that
Reunification is there the territories of the formats of the
Ukrainian People's Republic and  our
ethno-historical boundaries will coincide with the
political ones, now it is premature and
Unfortunately, we must not forget that our
current international partners and allies, to put it
mildly, they do not take such steps, to put it mildly, do you
understand the
question at all, do we
need it in theory, because some  says, but let's
look at the real facts. If there are
problems now, and give us some hapless
missiles for 500 km. Those
who took away missiles with a radius of
thousands of kilometers with nuclear warheads don't give us that. How will
they look at any plans for
territorial expansion? Well, the question was not chosen for me
it's not that
take and take away, as a result, I
already did that, that is, let's imagine that the Russian
Empire breaks up like that, like that into a bunch of
independent states, like that, some
conditionally Belgorod People's
Republic is formed there, like that, like that later. That is, does it make
sense for us to apply
for example, I personally don't see the point of
looking at the Internet to the population of
Belgorod region, yes, in the future, to Ukraine,
that is, I don't see the point, but some people are joking, matches, so I think about
it half-seriously, it seems to me that this is a
certain compensatory mechanism, this is how the
psyche reacts, many people want to
have no  only confidence in
tomorrow and some
psychological moments Revenge in
compensation for that fear for that night
that many felt Last year on
February 24 when the horde moved in all
azimuths to Ukraine and it was sad and scary
and it was not known what to do next Form in
insta dynamics of events and  that's why people are
now comforting themselves with such, let's say,
mirror
illusions as for me, and for me it
will be much more important to return from Europe 5 million
Ukrainians who left there, in particular, this is
enough and it was mostly the
able-bodied population that left, and the most
important thing is that childbearing, yes, that is, mainly
women who left personally interested  I am
personally interested in these people, my acquaintances are there, my friends are there, a
huge number of charming Ukrainian women
have left. Well, we need them here, and they are
very big. Yes, there is a problem, because a person who
has lived there for a year or two has already
adapted to her social connections in the
previous place.  friends are broken up somewhere,
then the job
is to come and settle down somewhere, and here there
are already friends, there are already acquaintances, just as there are already
jobs, and it is difficult to tear it away, although in
principle, if you take the 90s, so many people in our country
went
to Italy to earn money  to Spain, yes, some of them remained,
but many returned, you saw, but
after all, it was labor migration, and at that time the
social ties that you very
correctly said about were not formed so easily,
now our people
master foreign languages much faster, now you
can work without a priv  ties to a
specific workplace, working in an
outsourced way, a
huge social mobility has appeared
in this regard, and most importantly, this
psychological factor, you know, give up
uncertainty and uncertainty, which
will be a background factor in the entire territory of Ukraine for a long time,
unfortunately, but this is how you have to
look at things realistically  will
not speak in favor of a quick and
massive return to Ukraine, that is why I would
really prefer to focus not on
phantoms like the Belgorod Kursk or
Volyn People's Republics, but on the
real 5 million Ukrainian men and women
who must be returned from Warsaw to
Wroclaw, Prague, Brno, Madrid, Rome, and
then immediately  by the way, you were a
deputy of the Verkhovna Rada, yes, you once were, yes, you
had to ask yourself, what would you be now, how would you be a
politician, let's say, let's imagine that the war
ended, so Ukraine won, and
what steps did you take to see how it is possible
to return, how to lure these people Back Well,
first of all, these are completely different  the approach
to taxation, the economy must
be built on the foundations of a truly new
economic policy, as at one time
even the same cunning Leninists did.
the economy and they have no right to put
their finger on them, e-e, the local fiscal body is
conditionally so simplified for the citizen to
understand that any transfer of any
amount abroad is not taxed, so
free import of capital, benefits, benefits,
yes, for importing here equipment,
equipment for the creation of joint
ventures  so long periods when, let
's say, the
profits received from
business activities will be exempt from taxation,
if we take peacetime, for
example, people went there to Germany
conditionally. Yes, there is a very strict system of
taxation, that is, they go there not because of the
good taxation there, but
what are the risks  there will be risks here there are no
risks therefore Actually speaking here there will be a
certain balance Well and again all the same the
psychological factor should not be discounted
returning home for many it is
important and will be important and everyone should
take advantage of this
and not the world among strangers  let's
go back to the war, it's quite interesting that
we have such a branch because it is, in
principle, a consequence of the war, yes, this is a
huge wave of migration,
it was so forced before the war, for example, in
Poland, people migrated somewhere
there to the islands, as they say, to
Britain  yes, our people emigrated more to
Poland, now this process, lets say,
was catalyzed, a large part of the people
during the influx were simply pushed out,
you can say that, but there are a lot of such people,
but I talk sometimes there
are
people from Poland who fall into the chat roulette and say
they want to return to  Zaporizhzhia want
to return, that is, people have their
own feeling, you know, the feeling of
home, the feeling that this is very important, very
important, very correctly, this is also
called a psychological
attraction to their own, but you also rightly
noted that several waves of migration are superimposed on us.
So, after the
Revolution of Dignity and  the introduction of the
visa-free regime, we know very well that
these processes accelerated and not only
highly qualified specialists left,
I will tell you.
I want to transfer the conversation to another level.
Do we realize that after one
election cycle, in the city
council of a city like Wrocaw in Poland, the
local government will be elected by Ukrainians?
There are already cases that some Ukrainians are cases.
to elect parliamentary majorities That is, we
will become a factor, well, our blood brothers and sisters with you
will become a political factor, a factor of the
project of our political
influence, and this factor must be organized
in advance
and another 20, then we will touch on such a topic
if we consider the population of
temporarily occupied territories, after
deoccupation anyway  it will be necessary to
integrate him into Ukrainian society.
I am talking about, for example, children who
have grown up. He was in the 14th year. He
was conditionally 6 years old. So he was actually
formed. As a schoolboy, he finished school. So
somewhere, well, he almost finished after the
demands of Ukraine. So, that is.  a person
was formed completely under the conditions of occupation,
how difficult is it for the state and what
problems will the state face with
the integration of these people, it will be
really difficult to hide it. I want us to give up pink utopias and
some
such virtual illusions in advance, there will really be
huge problems,
filtering measures, counterintelligence
measures will be needed  conduct a
large-scale investigation about how to
behave During the occupation, not only
politicians, law enforcement
officers, there are civil servants, but
if, for example, such factors as the
involvement of Ukrainian schoolchildren by the
occupiers in agent operative
work, well, for example, giving out fighters of the
Ukrainian resistance movement, citizenship from
Ukrainian views, well,
formally, they  they will say that they are not subject to
criminal liability so far in
our country. But it is clear that we will
have to deal with this, and unfortunately, Russian
propaganda and the machine for
absorbing human souls works very
effectively, and it
will be possible to snatch not everyone from its clutches by simply
turning the territory under the
yellow-  the blue flag of the Ukrainian
administration and the Ukrainian media, well,
to what extent they will be Ukrainian. Then the
question remains because, uh, this
format, let's say, which is now like an emergency, well, it is
clear that this cannot be the basis of
state policy. So, we still
have a lot of problems with Ukrainization
inside Ukraine on our territory and,
accordingly, the
reintegration of the territory that was under
Russian occupation will be very
problematic, this must be recognized already
today, it will have to be done and a
colossal emphasis of state policy and
resources, both personnel and financial, will have to be directed there for
this, it will
definitely not be just any one  a
mass flash mob after which everyone will
live peacefully and friendly, because it must also be
taken into account that economically
devastated areas of depression are being built,
accordingly, these funds will be directed
from the state budget and will
not be redistributed to the benefit of the
western central regions of Ukraine, but
will be directed to where they were
most needed for reconstruction
There
simply wont be basic housing, infrastructure, transport communications. And
in general, I think that here without external
support, we will not be able to
do without
external support for many decades. So, when will
we even be able to count on some?
form I personally do
not believe, I will speak frankly, it
depends on how the
result for Russia will end. Even when they
lost wars, they very often threw
the winners, a very convinced way, it is
not necessary to count on it as a
frivolity, definitely
[music] the
trickster is still to be taken away
If we take the
events of the century  of ancient times, recalling
there, Mykola Mikhnovsky, if I am not mistaken,
wanted to blow up the monument to Pushkin in
Kharkiv, so in 955, in some place there, we
celebrated some anniversary, it
must be said that now, where
Pushkinization is a state policy,
we have made progress in this direction, but if we
draw parallels between  In these two
eras, I want to say that there are both positive
changes and negative ones in relation to the positive
Russians, it was not possible to impose a
civil war here because in 1917 and the
substation was cool, they came as
Russian interveners, well, this is Muravyovshchyna,
yes. But in 1919, they came here  with
the division of the Red Cossacks of Vitaliy
Primakov with the Ukrainian Soviet
divisions of Shchors Bozhenko and Parkhomenka, and
in truth, the Ukrainian Bolsheviks are not a
fiction and not a virtual reality, the
combat force today
cannot be like that, the state formations of the DPR, the
LPR, they, if we could say, became
historical at that time  A hundred years ago,
effective factors in the destruction of Ukrainian
statehood, today they remain
shams, they are simulators, and accordingly,
we see that
Ukrainians are not fighting against Ukrainians in this
war, they are fighting under compulsion, of course, the
residents of the
territory occupied by the Russians are mobilized, but this is not a completely
different story, it is clearly not a conflict between
two countries, but
the aggressor on the other side would really like this 100 years ago
we had
Petliura Vynnychenko Mikhnovsky
Skoropadskyi Dontsov Konovalets Melnyk
but there was a huge problem with the consciousness of the
average Ukrainian And in general his
ability to help a
Ukrainian peasant somewhere in Podil 100
years ago, well, except to leave  to
mobilize there, well, I dont know. Some
piece of lard to allocate there, how much
sugar from wheat. And today, we tell you, the
village can buy a thermal imaging sighting complex
that will destroy enemies and,
for example, it can buy fuel,
medicine, that is, the capabilities of a Ukrainian of the
XXI century are much greater than a Ukrainian of the
beginning of the XX century and  that is why
today we have such a phenomenon as the people's rear, but the
army lost, why, in particular, because
it fought in a detachment from the rear, well, it was
poured into requisitions, they are needed
Express purchase of products for various
paper candy, and today we have,
parallel to the state, accordingly, the people's
intimate  In this regard, we are
stronger than 100 years ago. Well, we must
not forget why the Red Army
defeated the army of the Ukrainian People's Republic in the war of
1917-21. They had commissars, agitators, they
had a colossal propaganda machine and
they had the power resource to implement
decisions, blocking troops  are there
cysts, special departments and so on, that is, a
cruel machine of terror directed
from the inside out, today the
Russians do not have such a successful
propaganda machine that would
poison the mind and heart of Ukrainians. Yes, it
works to mobilize and zombify
their own population, but these are definitely not
export products, this is not a world
revolution  this is not communism as the Utopia of the
Kingdom of Freedom, today even the
concept of the Russian World sounds
extremely rotten and
unconvincing when the Chechens implement it
on Russian territory
Dostoevsky They would not approve of such a thing
unequivocally at the expense of agitation yes If I am
not mistaken Trotsky So said that one
agitator takes several  The land can
replace several divisions, yes, if,
of course, that is, today, the Russians do
not have them, fortunately, then there were still, yes, in those
years, what if these military units could
move today for one
side, tomorrow for the other, whole
units would move directly now, this is when the
oil phenomenon from the army of the Ukrainian People's Republic dissertated
over  50% of its personnel, if at
best, they simply deserted and
some units
raised a red flag instead of a yellow-blue flag, this
was the case 100 years ago, and
fortunately there is no such thing and it cannot be
today, but we are definitely stronger in this regard,
and therefore our current war is
a revenge  for the program war of the Ukrainian People's Republic and What will
your wish be there at the end of the broadcast
for all Ukrainians who can please
wait, well, definitely I would like
to adjust to such a mood, very
hard-working, sober,
despite the fact that we all want to
believe in better changes that will come quickly, we
must understand that we are currently passing an
exam  which many European peoples have
already passed in the past and they became
very successful precisely because they passed this exam
and the recipe here
remains universal only for a person, it is a lot of
work on oneself, it is a strong discipline, it is a
rejection of illusion and utopias,
counting on oneself first and foremost and
This is Solidarity here. I want to start giving
Ukrainians a sense of the elbow and the feeling of
the shoulder. You understand that there are many of us not
only on holidays, but there are many of us here in
Ukraine and we can strengthen each other, support each other
and move
forward together. Come on, I know you are
such a fan.  reading books, and such
interesting books are not just popular over there. I would
advise people to read one, two or three books
in order to understand
something in this life regarding the prospects of
Ukraine or the history of Ukraine or
how to build a nation. Well, first of all, I
I would recommend Dmytro Dontsov's diaries for
1918, this period is very similar to the present,
these are very similar challenges and very similar
problems. I would also recommend the book by Yury
Gorli Zgorski Kholodnyi Yar to
understand the phenomenon of the Ukrainian
volunteer movement, the Ukrainian stereo
in general, the Ukrainian resistance and to
understand that every Ukrainian fortress
can easily be created  from every
ordinary Ukrainian family, and I would also
recommend a book with a more worldview and
ideological direction, Yuriy Lypa, the
purpose of Ukraine
is about our geopolitical mission, about our
prospects and the potential that we can
use when we gain
national statehood, this is not a utopia and
not a myth, but really a horizon for which  we can
orientate ourselves, we will call it Ukraine after Russia,
and that is the great Ukraine. Yuriy
Lipa, the destination of Ukraine, this is exactly what
happened to me. I am glad that such an idea arose. So, you also
named the authors of the 20th century,
so it
turns out that then we can name and
list there Dozens of such
iconic authors who created  the meanings were
quite serious at that time, but now in the 21st
century, it is so.
Who can you name
Ukrainian authors, are there any such, in general, any
words cut like that? I have great respect for Maria
Matios. I consider her our most outstanding
living prose writer.
And I believe that her works are Sweet Darusia  the
nation is almost never On the contrary, it is a
kind of
trilogy of
the epic of our liberation struggle and the
indestructibility of the Ukrainian spirit, and it is
clear from our contemporaries that it is clear to convey
the best, in my opinion, it is this one,
unfortunately, I do not like what is called
modern Ukrainian literature, but here
About tastes, let them argue about the steadfast
it  I like it, I don't have time for that, that
is, because I would also ask myself
the question, in your opinion, yes. Why is that,
then, there were revolutionary events and there
were so many intellectuals who really generated the
heart, what are we now in 100 years, do
you advise to read this book?  what is
happening now that we
have historical events, may God be with you? But there
is not such a whole Pleiade of
writers and people who
generate such high political meanings.
Unfortunately, the intellectual development and
evolution of the nation also goes non-linearly, but in a
certain sine. Well, let's remember that  we
had, for example, Before Kotlyarevskyi, well,
for a long time, nothing at all. Let's be
honest, after him, the
newest Ukrainian
literature began in the same way, and now we
should not be ashamed of the fact that we
may have certain moments of decline in some
such creative and productive activity,
Ukrainians were too busy surviving
as on  I also need to understand that. Well,
of course, culture exists in various forms,
it is elitist, it is mass, so at the
level of mass culture, it is possible to
do a lot of high-quality and
attractive things. Can it be put on the
same page as the classics, in my sad opinion?
Not yet  that's why she says: So far in the
21st century, no one has become a new
Ukrainian Dontsov by influence, by
charisma, by popularity and the spread of
ideas, and by the ability to create meanings
and reproduce good knowledge in the West.  I
would
especially start, but it must be taken into
account that there is a certain deficit and it
must be filled, but filled with a
quality product, but not simply for
proforma, so as to
popularize some open blanks to
write. OK, thank you very much. It was such a pleasant
conversation.
Yury Mykhalchyshyn, a
nationalist, an expert with Russofolia, was a guest. Thank
you very much.  Glory to Ukraine Glory to the heroes